*BLUF: There are many ways to learn, but ultimately you have to refine what learning means to you. With others, there is greater opportunity to learn and complexities. Embrace that.*

Learning is not the same as education. Learning is a process in which synapses are adjusted. Activities such as studying, training, playing, and working potentially feed your learning process.

Your learning journey is the active, intentional process of guiding the changes you make to your synapses using a long-term structured approach. A few things that help my journey are:

* "Knowing..." - have a sense for, based on exercise and earned context
	* Yourself - now and changes over time
		* Your affinities and strengths
		* Your requirements for personal 'best' / optima
		* Your divergences and dysfunctions
		* Your constraints and liberties
	* 'How to people'
		* How much is too much, how little is too little, peopling for you
		* People types and how to deal with you/them
		* Coachable moments are everywhere, even if 'coaching' isn't
	* How to listen
		* When Paul's mouth is going, his ears are not (and others aren't talking, usually)
		* People want to be heard; ask questions more than state things
		* Not all questions are the same; close-ended vs. open-ended questions
		* Give people time to think and respond; what is then said as well as non-verbal
		* Over-rotating, especially on written/text/Slack messages, is not 'hearing' them
		* In-the-moment vs. reflective afterwards; recorded vs. ad-hoc discussions
* Self vs. group learning and journeys
	* Some things you must learn alone, and some things you can't learn without others
	* With more voices come more perspectives, agree-worthy or not, and logistics
	* In a group setting, the distribution of people types and their learning styles varies
	* In a group setting, mechanisms that foster common experiences generally lead to a better overall experience for everyone than pandering to impatient individuals
	* ["Open Spaces"](https://devopsdays.org/open-space-format/) - many of my best listening moments since 2018 came from these
* How deep do you need to go and on how many fronts?
	* Making the same mistakes (or material gaps) on things you thought you once learned?
	* Time-boxes and personal measurement over the value in vs. value out of activities
	* You can't do "ALL THE THINGS"; effective strategies include scope and specificity
	* Providing space and time for 'high thinking' (abstractly, idealistically) to produce new ideas, but not all of them have the same value; prioritization afterward ("diverge and converge" - [Creative Thinker's Toolkit, G. Puccio](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30969542-the-creative-thinker-s-toolkit))
	* A formal approach to this would be something like [Double-diamond Design Process](https://www.designcouncil.org.uk/our-resources/framework-for-innovation/)
	* Paul uses post-its A LOT over coffee/beer to diverge AND converge in a single session
		* This is how this presentation was made :)
* Impetus / muse / accountability factor
	* Curriculums and course guide-ware are A form of impetus to act and learn
	* Certifications, so long as money and timing doesn't get in the way, are good enough
	* Project deadlines, reverse engineer them for meaningful checkpoints (for yourself or with others); avoid the habit of setting reminders or false deadlines (I still occasionally do this)
	* Don't wait until the end! procrastination even as a forcing function leads to undue stress and anxiety
	* 'Passion projects' - playing around with tech on the side rarely results in A) profitable outcomes, B) comprehensive understanding, or C) relatable/shareable value
		* However...for technology people, sometimes we can't help ourselves to play with tech toys. A few USEFUL areas of play where you will learn A LOT:
			* personal security and backups, password and secrets hygiene, disaster recovery strategy
			* a homelab for trying stuff outside what an employer allows
		* Try to keep side/pet projects tied to your core passion/s and stick to a budget
			* When you're spending your own money for this learning, you should get the most out of it: publish, socialize, collaborate, monetize (if possible)