Synthesis is a process of using specific inputs to produce specific outputs. Knowledge synthesis for humans involves learning, consuming, and iterating.

* Enough TIME to:
	* Reflect / redefine; gather data continuously
	* Research, discuss, collaborate
	* Reformulate / hypothesize
	* Exercise, gather new data
	* Triage outputs, normalize data, verify integrity
	* Compare, identify differences and similarities
	* Summarize, prioritize, and adjust
* Enough chances to iterate and optimize loops
* Enough samples and variety
	* A single point in time sample has its uses
		* CPU at > 100% (mac/Kubernetes) for 2 seconds (bottlenecked)
	* Multiple points in time is often better
		* CPU avg 12% use over 60s, though that 2s at 100% was bad for business
	* Both aggregates and exemplars (samples with additional context) are needed
* For one's learning journey vs. their grades
	* Both benefit from doing the work correctly to produce correct outcomes
	* Beyond correctness, 'quality of work' includes uniqueness, fitness to goal, and comprehensiveness (or at least enough citations/defensibility)
* Synthesis as proof of learning
	* How do you prove (to yourself and others) that you learned the 'right' thing?
	* How do you prove that you truly 'learned it'?
		* If no behavior changed, what was the point? - [Eric Proegler, Performance Testing in Agile Contexts, 2014](https://youtu.be/hmc9BNJSje8?si=p_eVS6rJ8ps7QPmZ&t=2069)
	* How do you capture context and outcomes / summarizations?
		* Employers like to keep all employee data and digital produce as "Intellectual Property", but your synapses and neurons are yours to keep
		* If you want to retain context and lessons learned, you need to develop and understand ways to capture the learning without risking IP leakage liability
			* Do presentations like this, just keep names and proper nouns out of it
	* How and what do you SHARE with others?
		* People have the same amount of time they had before (24hrs/day) but are awash with information and asks (ads, vines, videos, etc.); cognitive overload leads to narrowing, which leave you less of their attention
		* Summarize, don't just generate more content; ChatGPT is good as an exploration tool, but does not increase meaningful content in the universe, just regurgitates
		* Not everything has to be shared; public and private storage mechanisms
		* Who cares?
			* People who are actively searching will eventually find something you captured
			* People who don't care maybe won't benefit from what you captured anyway
			* Your relationship to audiences is influenced by your motivations for sharing: monetization, promotion, education, etc.