
* Never enough time or resources to do 'all the things'
	* What is this 'all' of which you speak? Break it down:
		* What is THE (1) goal? Got multiple...keep them separated
		* 'All' that is must-have vs. nice-to-have to accomplish the goal
		* Which outcomes are needed now vs. later?
			* What things take more or less time? Some things later must start now
			* Time assumptions when other people are involved affect outcomes
	* In the same way, too big a portfolio of efforts means never enough for any of them
		* Know your current 'WIP limit' (Work In Process) and variability factor
			* Dr. Eliahu Goldratt - Theory of Constraints - "In every system, what is the variability and sequences..."
	* What to do with the rest that you say NO to?
		* Make a note, communicate it to relevant stakeholders, and move on (NO FOMO)
* "Never say never"
	* How you manage your 'pipeline' of work (like sales opportunities, a distribution)
		* One (big) thing at a time and a few (smaller) other things
			* Key domain and a few focus areas
		* You can put anything down, but there are effects
			* What about commitments to others?
			* Intra-dependency to other efforts
	* Hypothetical ideal (so far); characteristics that foster growth
		* Low coupling with high degree of generative overlap
			* Example: current incubations, farm field research work, homelab
		* Limited commitments and liability, lots of learning and interactions
			* No contracts, no unsafe engagements, no moments wasted
		* Equitable contribution model
	* Iterate to find what time/resources to put to which efforts
		* Enough of a time box for you to feel you gave it appropriate effort
		* Enough of a structured process to...
			* Revive paused efforts later
			* Effectively share the goal, effort to date, next steps, and anticipated value
			* Example: Growgistics Ideation -> Incubation -> Graduate
				* At any moment, it could be a 'NO' or 'not now' (pause efforts)
	* 